# IronicContentGeneration

> These data are released as part of the paper **I'm sure you're a real scholar yourself: Exploring Ironic Content Generation by Large Language Models** (Balestrucci et al.) accepted at **EMNLP 2024 Findings**.
>
> For a more in-depth analysis of the data, please refer to the paper.


## Overview
Generating ironic content is particularly challenging as it demands a deep understanding of context, implicit references, and the delicate balance between seriousness and playfulness. Furthermore, irony is highly subjective, influenced by various social, cultural, and generational factors.

This project explores whether **Large Language Models (LLMs)** can learn to generate ironic responses to social media posts. To investigate this, we fine-tuned two models:

- One model generates **ironic content**.
- The other model generates **non-ironic content**.

We performed a detailed linguistic analysis of the generated outputs, focusing on:
- The relationship between the generated response and the original social media post.
- The linguistic features of irony in the responses.
- The similarity of the generated responses to human-written replies.

The base dataset used for training is [**MultiPico**](https://www.amazon.science/publications/multipico-multilingual-perspectivist-irony-corpus) ([MultiPICo: Multilingual Perspectivist Irony Corpus](https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.849) (Casola et al., ACL 2024)), which provides a wide range of social media posts with varied linguistic and cultural contexts.

Additionally, we conducted a **large-scale human evaluation** to assess the effectiveness of the models' ironic content generation.

Moreover, we explored the possibility of LLMs generating irony with a **generational perspective**, yielding mixed results. This suggests that irony can be perceived differently across different age groups, which adds an extra layer of complexity to the task of generating ironic content.

## Data and Models
The dataset used in this study, along with the trained models, is released under the **Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 4.0 International License**. They are made available **exclusively for research purposes** at the following link:  
[GitHub: thePerspectiveGIRLS/IronicContentGeneration](https://github.com/thePerspectiveGIRLS/IronicContentGeneration)

## Repository Structure
- `IAA - preliminary evaluation/` - Files related to preliminary evaluations to choose the model architechture and other details.
- `data/` - Datasets used for training and evaluation.
- `linguistic analysis/` - Scripts and results of linguistic analyses.
- `model output - to not consider/` - Outputs generated by models that are not included in the main analysis.
- `model outputs` - Outputs focusing on the generational aspect of irony.
- `models/` - Trained models used for generating ironic and non-ironic content.
- `prolific demographics/` - Demographic information related to participants of the human evaluation.
- `qualtrics annotation/` - Data and results from human evaluations.
  
## License
This project is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial 4.0 International License**. You are free to use, share, and adapt the materials for research purposes as long as proper credit is given, but **commercial use is prohibited**.

## Contact
For any inquiries regarding the project or the models, please contact [PierBale](https://github.com/PierBale).


Please cite
```
@inproceedings{balestrucci-etal-2024-accepted,
    title = "I'm sure you're a real scholar yourself: Exploring Ironic Content Generation by Large Language Models",
    author = "Balestrucci, Pier and
    Lo, Soda Marem  and
    Casola, Silvia  and
    Basile, Valerio  and
    Mazzei, Alessandro",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing",
    address = "Miami",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
}
```

If you use the original or generated data, also cite
```
@inproceedings{casola-etal-2024-multipico,
    title = "{M}ulti{PIC}o: Multilingual Perspectivist Irony Corpus",
    author = "Casola, Silvia  and
      Frenda, Simona  and
      Lo, Soda  and
      Sezerer, Erhan  and
      Uva, Antonio  and
      Basile, Valerio  and
      Bosco, Cristina  and
      Pedrani, Alessandro  and
      Rubagotti, Chiara  and
      Patti, Viviana  and
      Bernardi, Davide",
    editor = "Ku, Lun-Wei  and
      Martins, Andre  and
      Srikumar, Vivek",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers)",
    month = aug,
    year = "2024",
    address = "Bangkok, Thailand",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.849",
    doi = "10.18653/v1/2024.acl-long.849",
    pages = "16008--16021",
}
```


